---
layout: page
title: Languages
permalink: /lang
---

« In the conscious state, through language, thought is verbalized from the response of memory. Music, mathematics, french, and painting, among other aspects of human cultures, are languages in such ways. Thought dwells on images or abstract representations of a supposed reality, using languages as a means of approximation. But, dealing with abstract concepts means that one has to deal with the possibility of incoherence and misinterpretation. As an illustration, the word tree defines one's knowledge of the tree with all the possible features that come with it: trunk, leaves, roots, etc. Still, the word can't describe all the infinite aspects of a tree; the word in itself is empty as it is not the real thing, and thought has a very limited perception of that tree. Per se, one can't say in all honesty that one really knows a tree. Can one say the same about oneself as well? Is one just bounded by one's name? Also, one always finds it difficult to express one's thoughts through a language as one has to learn the reality happening through the limited concepts of language. That's the main reason languages grow to be more complex in terms of vocabulary. One learns about the tree in a very limited way through words, just like one learns about expressing certain emotions with notes in music. So, one tends to refine the use of a language to try to make up for the discrepancies between thought and self-expression, thinking it would close the gap between thought and reality. But fundamentally, one sees one thing and is taught another. In that sense, is language also just a by-product of thought? There's a deep misunderstanding of thought. Not only the misunderstanding of words on the surface, but a deeper confusion that concerns thought itself. It's an ultimate lack of understanding of one's thoughts. There seems to be a paradox in the use of something limited to approach the immeasurable, which is reality. The actual has been replaced by the abstraction, the word. There's the conditioning of cultures and traditions which reflects back and forth with the language used. Words take on connotative meanings and language becomes an important vector of self-identification. Such words include nation, proud, courage to name a few. But the word is also used as a communication of one's feelings, though not necessarily communicated outwardly, it holds one's feelings. It's not the actual feeling expressed with language that conditions the brain but the concept, the image, the idea brought up by the theories, the conclusions formed by the abstraction of the feeling itself. Fear is an actuality whereas courage is just an abstraction of fear, an escape from the actuality, just an idea. Thought can take different forms, written or spoken or anything else, but the learning of language is still an accumulation of memory, just like any other learning process: one records then when one's challenged, one acts. Why is it that the idea or the abstraction has become so prevailing in one's life even though it's the main reason for separation among men? »

Excerpt from [Wisdom of a grain of sand](/).

<br>
<hr>